-   **DNS (Domain Name System)** is a system that converts domain names into IP addresses, allowing humans to remember and categorize things resolved into the way computers prefer to think of things. This process is known as name resolution.
-   DNS servers are one of the things that need to be specifically configured at a node on a network, and they are almost always the four things that must be configured for a host to operate on a network in an expected way.
-   There are **five primary types** of DNS servers: **caching name servers**, **recursive name servers**, **root name servers**, **TLD name servers**, and **authoritative name servers**.
-   **Caching** and **recursive name servers** are generally provided by an ISP or local network, and their purpose is to store domain name lookups for a certain amount of time. Most caching name servers are also recursive name servers. Recursive name servers perform full DNS resolution requests.
-   All domain names in the global DNS system have a **TTL (time to live)**, which is a value, in seconds that can be configured by the owner of a domain name for how long a name server is allowed to cache an entry before it should discard it and perform a full resolution again.
-   When a **local recursive server** needs to perform a **full recursive resolution**, the first step is always to contact a root name server. There are **13 total root name servers,** and they're responsible for directing queries toward the appropriate **TLD name server.** In the past, these 13 root servers were distributed to very specific geographic regions, but today they're mostly distributed across the globe via **Anycast**.
-   For each TLD in existence, there is a TLD name server. These TLD name servers provide information about the authoritative name servers for each domain within the TLD. Authoritative name servers store information about a specific domain and its IP address.
-   DNS servers can fulfill many roles at once, and any given DNS server can be a caching name server, recursive name server, root name server, TLD name server, and/or authoritative name server.

#dns #caching-name-servers #recursive-name-servers #root-name-servers #tld-name-servers #authoritative-name-servers #ttl #anycast #course2-module4 